README.md, before:

File description for QA Project

Project Brief
----------------------------------------------------------------
the brif of the project is to design a personal crud application.

- project management
    jira, scrum, agile, sql

- python fundamentals
    coding, flask, sqlalchemy

- git and github
    operational commands for scource control through git bash

- linux 
    terminal operation and integratgion into IDE (Virtual studio code)

- python web development
    Flask

- continuous integration
    Jenkins

- cloud fundamentals
    google cloud platform



App Design
-------------------------------
the design of the applicatoin will be fairly basic focussing on funtionality.

- create

- read

- update

- delete


Risk Assessment
------------------------------------
risk assesment will be carried out throughout to ensure the surity of the app
a risk that has been noted is the lack of user login interface encryption as flsak forms do not allow for solid encryption.


Testing
------------------------------------
this will be a test driven development focussing on functionality and testing throughout.




Updates
------------------------------------
continuous integration on jenkins means the app will updated throughout and after the project, to include more elaborate ideas that time has not permitted.



Known Issues
------------------------------------
known issues will be added to throughout.



Future Work
------------------------------------
future work will mainly cosist of user interface upgrades and design changes, as my pallette sees fit.

Commit message:

updated readme, added ERD and jira snapshot

README.md, after:

File description for QA Project

Project Brief
----------------------------------------------------------------
the brief of the project is to design a web crud application.

- project management
    jira, scrum, agile, sql

- python fundamentals
    flask, sqlalchemy

- git and github
    operational commands for scource control through git bash and version control on github

- linux 
    terminal operation and integratgion into IDE (Virtual studio code)

- python web development
    Flask

- continuous integration
    Jenkins

- cloud fundamentals
    google cloud platform, VM instance, firewalll rule, SQL cloud shell, 



App Design
-------------------------------
the design of the applicatoin will be fairly basic focussing on funtionality.
crud_ERD.png links to a snapshot of the entity relationship diagram that was drawn up at the start of the project to give a visual representation of the application.

- create
    the create funtionality will allow new customers and orders to be added to the database.
    at the post of this readme file, this fuctionality was operational.
- read
    the read functionality will allow for new customers and orders to be read on from the database
    at the post of this readme file, this fuctionality was operational.
- update
    thge update fucntion will allow the data to be update
    at the post of this readme file, this fuctionality was not operational, updates to be added in accordance the the kanban board.
- delete    
    the delete function will allow the data to be deleted
    at the post of this readme file, this fuctionality was not operational, updates to be added in accordance the the kanban board.

Risk Assessment
------------------------------------
several risk to the application as it currently stands including authentication and fuctionality.


Testing
------------------------------------
testing will be done in jenkins.




Updates
------------------------------------
updates of the HMTL file will be added in accordance with the kanban board.



Known Issues
------------------------------------
there are several known issues within the application:
- edit function not operational
- delete function not operational



Future Work
------------------------------------
future work will mainly cosist of user interface upgrades and design changes, as my pallette sees fit.
moreover, there will be extensive future work done to this application, including updating the edit and delete code to make it function properly.
i will be implementing tests on all functions of the application as well as properly deploying it through a CI/CD pipeline.
there will also be an authentication module added to the application, to allow customers to login in securely and logout.
moreover there will will new HTML design features such as a navigation bar and web design customisaiton.
